############################################################################
Federal Executive Government Arbitrates and Facilitates our Common Interests
############################################################################

The intent of federal executive responsibility should be to arbitrate and
facilitate the interests common to all united states local governments. Federal
policy should be limited to :doc:`ensuring the security of our shared
future<future_focused_government>`, which means that federal executive authority
is all future-facing, and not concerned with the day-to-day responsibilities of
governance and support of the citizens.

A future-facing federal government provides an easy to understand separation of
concerns, where states are responsible for the well-being of their citizens, and
the federal government defines the fundamental rights of our citizenry, safety,
and economy. This limits the power of executive authority in a robust
manner. Basically, it ensures that our federal government stays constitutionally
oriented, and ensures that the United States stays a federation -- and does not
devolve the power of states as the principle bodies of government.

There are a few types of executive authority that emphasize this responsibility,
namely responsibilities that fall into three general categories, enforcement of
common standards, then management of common insurance and investment
resources. These are all concerns that are most powerful when the buy-in costs
and allocation is widely distributed amongst the beneficiaries, as is true
across all states.

Too often we expect the federal government to solve our problems, rather than
what our local governments can solve. Unfortunately this focus on the country as
the problem solvers starts to become a self-fullfilling prophecy. Sure, by
focusing our political and capital investments on the federal scale we can
potentially solve problems with much greater impact, but federal investments and
approaches are also much harder to craft at such a grand scale compared to state
or local government policies. Too often, politics is treated as a belief system
rather than a system of political and economic experimentation. Federal policy
should only be implemented once there is solid evidence that a policy
works. This means that there are solid examples of the policy working in
multiple communities that properly represent the diversity of our nation.


************************************************************************
Federal Executive Responsibility -- Enforcement of Cross-State Standards
************************************************************************

Collective plans that can be bought into by multiple states

Trade specific standards (become representatives to specific regulatory arenas)

Infrastructure planning and maintenance banks

***********************************************************************
Federal Executive Responsibility -- Management of Cross-State Insurance
***********************************************************************

Executive command of the military


************************************************************************
Federal Executive Responsibility -- Management of Cross-State Investment
************************************************************************

