###############
Getting Started
###############

So this is it.

I moved into my new place last week, finally got myself situated. The family and I cooked at home
last night. It felt good to get something other than take out or pizza in my stomach. I almost
forgot how good a real salad tastes like, you know, not one of those ice berg and nitrogen "ripened"
tomato monstrosities covered in Ranch Dressing product that you just know comes in five gallon
buckets.

Anyways, I took a stroll around our new yard this morning. I dunno..  I feel like this thing isn't
living up to its potential. I mean, I remember growing up around here and how, *green*, things could
get. Not here. I mean, the neighbors get their lawn treated, so they have a green lawn but at that
point its so fake you might as well put in a plastic carpet lawn. Complete the look with some pink
flamingos, garden gnomes, pink cadallac and smoking two packs a day just to cement in the fact that
you hate life and everything in it.

Fuck, where was I?

yeah, fucking hell. We bought a house and we're here in suburbia. Livin the dream.

Fuck, so this is it eh?

Anyways, we've got a front yard, a back yard. There's sidewalks and neighbors. There's a little park
down the street, and our next door neighbor has an apple tree that overhangs our backyard, dropping
its bountiful harvest for the squirrels and rats and bugs to eat up, and dig up, and crap up all
around the porch.

I'm getting overwhelmed just thinking about taking care of this place. I mean, keeping sane with my
job, the kids, and the wife all relying on me already. I mean I'm at my breaking point and cant take
on another chore. None of them are going to bother either, what with the computer games and cell
phones and Twitter and TV shows to keep up with.

I'm watchin the neighbor mow across the street. Damn, he waved at me. I'm going to have to introduce
myself and forget another person's name...

...

Well that's over with. Damn, I never knew how often you have to mow around these parts. He says that
front and backyard on his riding mower takes just under an hour and at the peak of the season he's
out there once a week. All to mow some goddamn grass so that people like me don't judge him to some
arbitrary standard set by some arbitrary standard of beauty we inherited from those oh so sane folks
in the good old '50's.

Mowing every week.

A goddamn hour. Why?

I guess I could get lawn service, but who am I kidding, I'm not going to be able to afford that.

I could get my son to do it, eventually. But damn just thinking about it it seems so stupid. I need
to water, fertilize, and mow this thing, and the only time I use it is the single bbq I'm
realisically going to throw a year, and when I'm on it to mow the stupid thing! There's got to be a
better option.

...

So I remembered what we always say, its basically a joke in our house these days. "I bet there's an
app for that!" And I figured, hell lets see. So I searched online for lawn alternative, lawn
replacement, and I think I tried no maintenance lawn.


Most of what I found was crap, things that cost you $30k just to replace your lawn with artificial
turf, or a pile of rocks or some other overpriced, joyless crap. But then there was this thing that
might be worth looking into. I mean, it can't hurt. Its a free app that basically teaches you about
how the land your on wants to grow. Supposedly it shows you how you can harness that growth and
actually get something in return. Some of the example properties they showed were incredible. The
best part was seeing these examples over time and how they transformed from something that looked
pretty darned close to our lawn into that.

They even had some breakdowns of the cost and total effort these folks put into their yards. It
really wasn't that bad. Sure, some of the projects took a couple weekends to set up but they were
*getting* something out of their property -- that motivates me.

--

So I downloaded the app, it's called BiHome. The name is weird but it kinda makes sense. The app is
all about understanding and controlling the ecology that wants to be present in your yard, so it
becomes a way of improving your home's biome, so that's how you get Bihome.

The first thing I noticed was that the app didn't ask me to make an account or sign away my data or
anything like that. All it asked was for permission to use the camera, GPS, and to store files.

It then asked how I wanted to get started, did I want to open an existing project or to start a new
one. I chose to start a new one.

Then it asked if I wanted to use my current location as the basis for the project. I said yes, which
pulled up my GPS location and brought up a map, asking me to confirm this as my location and then
draw a boundary box on my property limits. From this it let me know what the contour lines of my
property were, what the USDA plant zone I reside in is, and average rainfall, wind, and temperature
variations are throughout the year.

Next, it asked me to take a walk around the property and take pictures of any plant or object that I
planned on keeping around and which was large enough to cast a shadow. When I took each picture, it
asked me to estimate how tall the object was, as well as classify it. It recommended that I download
an app called iNaturalist if I didn't know the type of tree or plant I was looking at. After I took
the picture, it tried to estimate where the object was in the yard, but it let me move it around to
correct its placement.

Some of this manipulation of the map is hard to do on such a tiny screen, but it let me know I could
download the Bihome app on my laptop, and simply open up my property file and manipulate it in much
finer detail through that interface.

Once I finished taking pictures and labeling, I then had a really slick looking 2D map of where I
lived. It wasn't just a static image though. The app let me know contour lines, estimated relative
wet/dry areas based on contour and identified water sources, it showed me the sunny/shady spots and
how those changed over the course of a year. It showed me areas that could be very windy and let me
know that creating perennially sunny spots that are protected from the wind -- especially winter
winds, is the best way to make a microclimate.

